# SDI - System Design Interview

## Step 1: Requirements Clarifications

**Goal :**

- Goal is to clarify ambiguities and identify the scope of problem to be solved in a given time frame

E.g for a twitter like service

- Will users of our service be able to post tweets and follow other people?
- Should we also design to create and display the user’s timeline?
- Will tweets contain photos and videos?
- Are we focusing on the backend only or are we developing the front-end too?
- Will users be able to search tweets?
- Do we need to display hot trending topics?
- Will there be any push notification for new (or important) tweets?

## Step 2: Back Of the envelope estimations

**Goal :**

- Helps when the focus of design shifts to scaling,partitioning,load balancing and caching

For a twitter like service , below back of envelope estimations can be done

- What scale is expected from the system (e.g., number of new tweets, number of tweet views, number of timeline generations per sec., etc.)?
- How much storage will we need? We will have different storage requirements if users can have photos and videos in their tweets.
- What network bandwidth usage are we expecting? This will be crucial in deciding how we will manage traffic and balance load between servers.

## Step 3: System Interface Definitions

**Goal :**

- Defines What APIs are expected from the system

- Helps establish the exact contract expected from the system

- Helps in confirming if we haven't got any requirements wrong

For a tweeter like service, some of the system interface definitions can be

• postTweet(user_id,tweet_data,tweet_location,user_location,timestamp,...)

• generateTimeline(user_id,current_time,user_location,...)

• markTweetFavorite(user_id,tweet_id,timestamp,...)

## Step 4: Defining Data Model

**Goal :**

- Data Flow between different components

- Can guide during data partitioning and management at later stage

- identify various entities in the system, how they will interact with each other

- Different aspects of data management like storage,transportation,encryption etc

- Identify which database system to use NoSQL or RDBMS
  What kind of block storage to use to store photos and videos

e.g For tweeter like service , some entities that can be considered are

• User: UserID, Name, Email, DoB, CreationData, LastLogin, etc.

• Tweet: TweetID, Content, TweetLocation, NumberOfLikes, TimeStamp, etc.

• UserFollow: UserID1, UserID2

• FavoriteTweets: UserID, TweetID, TimeStamp

## Step 5: High Level Design

**Goal :**

- Block diagram with 5 to 6 boxes that represent core components of the systems and are enough to solve the actual problem from end to end.

e.g For Twitter, at a high-level,

• we will need multiple application servers to serve all the read/write requests with load balancers in front of them for traffic distributions.

• If we’re assuming that we will have a lot more read traffic (as compared to write), we can decide to have separate servers for handling these scenarios.

• On the backend, we need an efficient database that can store all the tweets and can support a huge number of reads.

• We will also need a distributed file storage system for storing photos and videos.

\*\*\*Note : See the attached diagram with this lesson.

## Step 6: Detailed Design

**Goal :**

- Dig deeper into 2 or 3 major components

- Explore different approaches , and their pros and cons and why you will prefer one approach over another

- Remember there is no single answer; the only important thing is to consider tradeoffs between different options while keeping system constraints in mind.

e.g For a twitter like service , these might be some components and approaches

• Since we will be storing a massive amount of data, how should we partition our data to distribute it to multiple databases?

• Should we try to store all the data of a user on the same database? What issue could it cause?

• How will we handle hot users who tweet a lot or follow lots of people?
Since users’ timeline will contain the most recent (and relevant) tweets, should we try to store our data in such a way that is optimized for scanning the latest tweets?

• How much and at which layer should we introduce cache to speed things up?
What components need better load balancing?

## Step 7: Identifying and Resolving Bottlenecks

**Goal :**

- Discuss as many bottlenecks as possible and different approaches to mitigate them.

e.g For Twitter service

• Is there any single point of failure in our system? What are we doing to mitigate it?

• Do we have enough replicas of the data so that if we lose a few servers, we can still serve our users?

• Similarly, do we have enough copies of different services running such that a few failures will not cause total system shutdown?

• How are we monitoring the performance of our service? Do we get alerts whenever critical components fail or their performance degrades?
